Well, let's talk about the disfellowshiping arrangement.
To begin, it would be good to read the scriptural basis for disfellowshiping.
It is found at 1 Corinthians chapter 5, so if you would like to open your Bibles there,
we will start reading with verse 9 of 1 Corinthians 5.
It says, and this is the Apostle Paul writing under inspiration, in my letter I wrote
you to stop keeping company with sexually immoral people.
Not meaning entirely with the sexually immoral people of this world, or the greedy people,
or extortioners, or idolaters, otherwise you would actually have to get out of the world.
Well, Christians do not hold themselves a lieu from non-witnesses.
We have normal contacts with neighbors, workmates, schoolmates, and others, and we witness
to them.
Even if some of them are living immoral lives.
We cannot avoid them completely.
It is different though with a brother who lives like that.
Verse 11 continues, but now I am writing you to stop keeping company with anyone called
a brother who is sexually immoral, or a greedy person, or an idolater, or a reviler, or
a drunkard, or an extortioner, not even eating with such a man.
And so at the end of verse 13, he adds, remove the wicked person from among yourselves.
Notice that this inspired instruction is worded as a command, not a suggestion.
This matter was nicely explained in the article why disfellowshiping is a loving provision
in the April 15, 2015 issue of the watch tower.
It said, although Jehovah does not demand perfection from us, he does have a standard
of holiness that he expects his servants to meet.
For example, Jehovah insists that we avoid such serious sins as sexual immorality, idolatry,
theory, extortion, murder, and spiritism.
Would you not agree that Jehovah's clean standards are reasonable and that they serve
to protect us?
Who does not prefer to live among peaceful, decent people who can be trusted?
We find such an environment among our spiritual brothers and sisters thanks to the promise
we make at the time of our dedication to God to live in harmony with the guidelines found
in his word.
But now, what if a baptized Christian commits a serious sin?
Does the congregation disfellowship people because they commit sexual immorality, idolatry,
theory, extortion, murder, spiritism, or something else?
Well, there's more to it than that.
And the same article explains, two factors must coincide that result in the disfellowship
being of one of Jehovah's witnesses.
First, a baptized witness commits a serious sin, second, he does not repent of his sin.
So individuals or disfellowship only when they are unrepentant of the sins they have committed,
and they cannot be reinstated into the congregation until the elders are convinced that they
are genuinely repentant.
Well, this presents a challenge to each of us when it is a beloved friend or relative
who is disfellowship.
Will we be submissive and yield to the judgment of the elders who handle the matter?
We should accept the fact that they are in a position to be more objective than we are.
The elders pray hard about these decisions knowing that they will render an account to God.
And that's why they make every effort to recover the airing one if possible.
But if that fails, they must protect the congregation and keep it morally clean.
But even then, they kindly and clearly explain the steps needed to be reinstated, and they
may periodically visit the disfellowship person to remind him or her of the way back to Jehovah.
Now, if we yield to and support the elders' judgment, we will actually be helping a
wrong-doer to benefit from the discipline as coming from Jehovah.
And that's so important for them to realize.
Look at Hebrews 12, starting with verse 5.
It says, and you have entirely forgotten the exhortation that addresses you as sons.
My son do not belittle the discipline from Jehovah, nor give up when you are corrected
by him.
For those whom Jehovah loves, he disciplines.
In fact, he scourges everyone whom he receives as a son.
And then verse 11, true, no discipline seems for the present to be joyous, but it is painful.
Yet afterward, it yields a peaceable fruit of righteousness to those who have been trained
by it.
So for disileship ones who have been trained by the discipline, it has helped them to become
spiritually restored.
So what is the very best thing we can do for those who are disileship?
We already read it in 1 Corinthians 5-11.
Stop keeping company with them, not even eating with them.
And speaking of the same sort of person the Apostle John wrote at 2 John 10, do not receive
him into your homes or say a greeting to him.
Now, our loyalty is on the line, not to the disileship person, but to God, who is watching
to see whether we will abide by his command, not to have contact with those who are disileship.
Some of Jehovah's people may think this is too drastic, and that they are keeping in contact
with the disileship friend or relative is a kindness.
But they could not be more wrong about that.
You see, it may save their own feelings, but they would be doing the worst possible thing
for the disfellowship person.
And Jesus did point out at Matthew 1119, wisdom is proved righteous by its results.
We can share with you many fine examples of the good that has resulted when a family,
firmly and loyally upholds Jehovah's decree not to associate with disfellowship ones.
One father said that when his son began behaving in a way that was unacceptable, his lifestyle
had put up a barrier between them.
Now note the father recognized it was his son who had created the barrier, not Jehovah.
After some ten years, the young man cleaned up his life and returned to the congregation,
and he admitted, being disfellowship brought me face to face with the consequences of my
lifestyle, I needed that sort of discipline.
His father added, disfellowshiping is an arrangement that we need.
One that helps us live according to Jehovah's standards, in the long run despite the pain,
it brings good results.
Had I been tolerant of my son's bag conduct, he would never have recovered.
In another case, a sister admitted, cutting ourselves off completely from all association
with my disfellowship sister, tested our loyalty to God's arrangement, it gave us opportunity
to show that we really believe that Jehovah's way is best.
And her reinstated sister later told her, if you had viewed the disfellowship lightly,
I know that I would not have taken steps toward reinstatement as soon as I did.
Being totally cut off from loved ones and close contact with the congregation created
a strong desire to repent, I realized just how wrong my course was and how serious it
was to turn my back on Jehovah.
We should think of these comments, if ever we are tempted to violate God's command not
to associate with disfellowship friends or relatives.
The article I've quoted from also says, disfellowship ones who are no longer members of the congregation
may come to realize what they have lost, the bitter fruits of their sinful course, together
with the memories of happier days when they enjoyed a good relationship with Jehovah and
his people could bring them to their senses.
Well, Jehovah knew what he was doing when he inspired the anointed apostles to write
what they did about not having any contact with disfellowship wrongdoers.
Let's always believe that.